Meeting Title: Jakub & David vd Linden
Date: Feb 20

Transcript:

Me: And it's just helpful for me for note taking, to remember from the last what we talked about. Please continue.
Them: That's okay. Jacob. Is that okay? Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Then I'll introduce. In the Netherlands. I'm 25 and I want to do effective altruism related work. I found you via Reinstein. Am I saying it correctly?
Me: Yeah.
Them: Einstein via the hive. Slack and last time. We had a meeting and decided that. We could work together. And then you gave me this specific question and some model and squiggle. Then I involved Jacob because he's an expert in financial forecasting. And worked in fields like that. Take it. Yeah, you are. So after that, we worked together, and I was like, God, yeah, you know what you're doing. And then Jacob's, yeah, I used to be paid for doing this. And I was like, yeah, that makes sense. We have looked at the model. And some related things. I have also reached out to some more people, mostly just via the slack. And there's one more person who's interested in joining the project, Jacob. And I believe it's very important that for this question to have a meaningful answer and these models to become useful. That there's actually an expert related to cultivated meat or cultured meat.
Me: Yeah, go ahead, please. No, I just. I just. I just want to hold you there and mention that this is happening in parallel and hopefully feeding into and learning from the Pivotal Questions project, which. Which we've now found actually three evaluators to tackle. Right.
Them: Yes.
Me: Which I'll get to in a moment, but one is a buy, one is a biologist, and I think to our. I guess some format, some form of economist. Engineers who know a bit about the biology. And I don't know yet. I got to reach out to them again to know whether they're gonna. Whether they're okay disclosing their identities. So I'm not gonna say them right now, but I think, you know, we could work together, and I see two ways we could work together, but please. Continue. We'll get back to that.
Them: Yeah. So I am seeing this project is that this can be a piece towards your larger DN Journal landscape. That's something that's too big for me to have a good view at.
Me: Well.
Them: But I would like to contribute to making. This small part, something where I feel like. We've done research and we have meaningful discussion that if someone reads it, That they feel like they learned something. And if that gives an answer to the question, that's nice. And if it gives an answer along the lines of, given these circumstances, our prediction is still highly uncertain, that is also an answer.
Me: If it's informed by the the best calibrated information. Exactly. Why don't we want to know people? You know, because people may be. Anyways, we're speaking the same language, so I don't have to. You know?
Them: And I'm almost done, I think. What I feel like that I would like to get out of this is to feel like the project has some form of checkpoint or period after which you feel like, okay, this is enough to share it online. Because this helps for both Jacob and I to build a portfolio of things that we've actually worked on.
Me: Yeah, totally.
Them: And I think it's also useful for the community if you actually share your work and say, explain it. And even if it's just like half an A4 explanation, just the conclusion of working on this, our conclusion is blah, blah, blah.
Me: Yes.
Them: In a way that people can understand. And I think before we get to that point, it's essential that we involve someone who actually knows the process of creating cultured Mead to look at the model.
Me: Right. Which. Which we have on the pivotal questions.
Them: And I would be willing to look for that personal.
Me: Team. One of the people, Sorry, who's doing the project is in fact, someone who has worked at a cultured meat company in the past. So that's. That's good. And so just. Okay, so you just remind me. So you're both. Do you do both. Do you have day jobs? Did you say you're both students? Sorry, my brain is a little add. Are you both sort of between jobs and. Remind me again.
Them: We are different, but in a similar situation. I think the next best thing is that Jacob introduces himself.
Me: Yeah, sorry. Sorry to lump you together. Yeah, please, jacob.
Them: I wish to be 25 like David. About a decade more. In my backpack. Yeah, currently. In between jobs. I mean, sabbatical. Trying to. Find my place in the EA community and try to be useful. So I'm looking for volunteering opportunities and I decided to take this one as well because parts of my past experience I used to work on model wanted to model development and validation quite a lot. The last three and a half years. So if my professional career focused on civil topics, I mostly worked with a statistical probabilistic model, forecasting models, classification models, but as of my personal interest also used to look into more sort of a judgmental, but also others not much empirical data which you can build your models on. And from what I got tainted my time working on the cultivated meat product is that it seems that lots of these variables have been kind of approached in this manner as well.
Me: I think it's somewhere in between the two.
Them: Yeah. This is both exciting and interesting.
Me: It's. And there's. I mean, yeah, there are things. I mean, I guess when you say judgmental, is that like this is that is do. What you mean by that? Do you sort of mean where we try to get.
Them: Something like you would find a Metaculus or good judgment open people trying to give the best of the reliability. Some judgmental probabilities on Somalians.
Me: Right. Right? Right. Call, hopefully calibrated people.
Them: Yeah, hopefully calibre. Or if not individuals, then as a whole the group is closer to some underlying data generator, whatever.
Me: But you can never be sure about that. Very cool. Very cool. Very cool.
Them: I guess we can jump into the discussion regarding the model.
Me: Yeah. Let me. Let me just give you a little bit more. Sorry. Yakub or Jacob. Do you want to finish? Sorry.
Them: No, that's fine. Go ahead.
Me: No, I just want to catch you up on where things are with this project. And I think it seems like the. This work, you know, what you're suggesting is very. I mean, it's hard to know in this world of AI Whatever what's compatible with a career path, but it seems like, you know, this. Forecasting, communication, leveraging is something that you know will be helpful. For finding jobs in this space and in adjacent spaces. So just to catch you up on some things on my end, and I think I'm a little bit more even ambitious. Than what David said, which is, I'd like to make this not only something that sort of people can read, and one often say, oh, that's interesting. And that gives me a little bit information. I'd like to. And we don't necessarily succeed, but I would like to try to make this a little bit of a model for how this sort of thing can be done. In a collaborative way. Where. And I think the main, one of the main issues is, is how do we have a question we're trying to answer or number we're trying to come up with. How can we and you may know more about doing this to me, but how can we set up not how to set up a model, but how to set up a structure that different people can interact with, interface with? And, you know, I guess there's a few types of uncertainty. One is over what the structure of the model should look like, you know, should things be multiplicative, I guess the structure of the value. There's also obviously a lot of. We talked about different difficult assumptions about what even should be the structure of the uncertainty and its correlation. But okay, so one question is, is, you know, can we come up with it? So one can we come up with. I think we talked about this, David, you know, an example model that does sort of make some, some fit some structure to it to give people a sense of, you know, what would be a reasonable way that you could opt whatever you want to call it. Specify this. You know, talk about log normal distributions or uniform distributions or something like that. And then another thought would be, how can we set up a broader template so that when we go to the. Other people like pivotal questions, evaluators. They can be thinking in the same way. And say, okay, well, I'm going to give my own take on these things so we can put it to get. Does. Does that make sense to you? Am I being too vague there?
Them: Yeah, absolutely. This reminds me of trying to build a platform which has some unified way to approach these kind of questions. And a lot of this has been. Built in established, established business areas like finance. And you have regulatory texts which prescribe how things should be modeled, which is very explicit and maybe too rigid, but I guess you can remove some degrees of freedom or actually add some degrees of freedom to make it more flexible for anybody from the outside who wants to build on top. Of your previous work. Right. Good practices guidelines. I think it's a good place to start.
Me: I mean, I think.
Them: Trying to thinking of this problem.
Me: I don't want to be too expensive anymore because we should get into, like, maybe let's get into some of the detail. But I think one thing is, you know, our experts can provide if we have either the idea of a model or a specific model or a specific model, that suggests other ways that models could work. Then some of our experts could say, we could sort of say, okay, in this model or in a range of models, this question, this parameter is the very important one. And here's how you want to frame that question. And some of our experts could narrowly help provide information, narrow beliefs about that specific part of the model, even if they can't address the whole thing. But if we don't have a model, we might have the experts focusing on things that are not so relevant. Or saying, well, you know what I want. What I want to avoid, and I'm sure you do, too. Sorry, David. Is people saying, well, this. We just don't know anything about this. We can't say anything. We want them to, you know, vomit, at least whatever they have. Sorry, David, please.
Them: Yeah. Yeah. So maybe I feel like. If we want to make a model that predicts the future, then we're running into. An issue with so many outside factors that we don't know. I think maybe in order to keep it useful, we can try to frame it toward something. Where we highlight actionable bottlenecks and quantify them in a certain way. Which is similar to predicting. But I think the nuance can be different. So what I also notice with, like, if. If the end number that we come up with is, like, a percentage of how likely cultivated meat is going to succeed in 2036.
Me: Six. Let's see.
Them: Sorry. I'm saying numbers wrong, but in 10 years from now, I feel like that percentage in and of itself. Doesn't feel too useful.
Me: Doesn't have as much VO vet value value of information.
Them: Yeah, because then. Then. Okay, so now we have a number of it's going to succeed. 70% or it's going to succeed. 2%. But if you have a landscape and see how certain things interact with each other and see how where a bottleneck is given a certain model, then it starts to feel more useful.
Me: That is interesting, too. And yeah, I mean, one thing I'd also like to do as part of this project, thank you. Very optimistically, is to try to demystify a little bit how the model of cultured meat production works so that people can have educated conversations about it. Because in my brain, it's still not completely clear, although I think I'm getting there. Not necessarily what we're doing, but what the project might want to do.
Them: To me.
Me: One thing on what you said. Have you seen the framing of the pivotal questions? So those. The idea of the pivotal you have. Okay, so I can't remember what we've shared because the idea of that was to try to find questions that would be actionable for, you know, for people in the animal welfare sector trying to make a difference.
Them: Yes. Yeah. So. So one of those questions is like, should you invest in this one versus that one? But I. I don't really like that question. Because I feel like these problems are related. And they're intertwined. And even if you say investing in this one is more important than investing in that one, Then to me it really screams like, yeah, but what is this based on? And how good is this prediction? Well, if it gives you an indication for how to spread your investment between two causes or. And give some uncertainty and says like, okay, this one is very likely, according to our models, to flop, so we only recommend a very low number. Then I'm starting to feel like it becomes more workable and real, because in reality, you're not choosing between investing. In one thing or not investing. There's like many people that are investing or not investing, and we're trying to find what is neglected and what is useful. And we, as a. As a community, we are spreading finance in a certain way.
Me: Yeah. Yeah. So this is only asking the question at the margin. At the margin rather than.
Them: And so it's more than a yes, no. I feel like. In the end, the yes no has got to be on the individual project level. Is this project good? Yes. Then do it. If this project is subpar, then don't do it. But this model is not going to go that narrow, so I feel like we can say something about or like this.
Me: The model won't. No, the model won't. No, no. You write, the model won't. Part of the. I mean, so if you look at the trade off between these different when, when we're formulating these questions, So there's, there's a trade off between a few different things. So, you see, we come up with goal oriented questions where it's like, you know, these are the things and you. I might be stating them wrong, but these are the things that. Directly actionable for an organization right now, like animal charity evaluators to decide, you know, should we recommend funding for this or not. And then there's. And then there's questions that we put because they were very much operationalizable and we wanted to engage the crowds in some way, because not every question can be is legible or can be put on metaculus. And then there's other questions that sort of. We're trying to get at the components of the model. In other words, or like. Like things that are likely to when you do try to build your model. Help. Help you. Have more concentrated understanding. Like specific things about will this hydrolysate be used? And anyways, I kind of lost my train of thought there. Sorry about that.
Them: Yeah. I feel like those type of things, they're not going to come from projects like ours because these are, like, very biologically, like. I feel like those insights, they come from the people that actually do it. So making a model about budgets. Isn't going to be the one that knows why their highroll state is better than some other biological thing. People that actually do these things every day and know the prices and know how they fluctuate and know the suppliers.
Me: Yeah. Right. Right.
Them: Those are going to be the ones that decide which ones are better.
Me: And, and we're, like I said, we're in touch with at least two or three people who have some sense of that. I think we need to put the things together because I think that just this, let's say this, my, this is maybe my bias, but I think that the scientists don't necessarily have a sense of how, in what ways these things are important or how they're important to the overall model and let's say the cost, the cost function, whereas, as you say,
Them: Have. You. Have you seen the Good Food Institute video? Videos or articles?
Me: Let me look more at that. If you want to send me some, I'll take a look.
Them: Yeah. I asked around a little bit and someone gave me two links. One for a text based thing and one video. And I watched the one hour video. And they, they, they make a lot of videos, but every year they do a year recap. Of what the current state is of the market, what are the bottlenecks and what's going on. And basically, there's a lot of bottlenecks. And what they're saying. Okay, so with. With financing. You have all of these weird interplay. So if you. There's, let's say, 10 companies in a certain region. They struggle financially. Then some of those companies will go bankrupt, which will mean that there will be less companies. But that doesn't per se mean that it's worse, because then you also get a concentration of intellectual property. There's already companies that work together by having, like, so cultured meat is kind of like make made with breweries. So you. You rent some form of brewery? But there's multiple companies that share the same brewery. So it's a very weird landscape. And they struggle with funding. And with regulation. And they infect each other. So if the regulation becomes to a point that you're allowed to sell the product, then investors. Are more likely to invest because investors are scared of investing in something that is not legal to sell.
Me: Which will affect the cost of capital or something like that.
Them: Yeah. And what they advise is for companies to come up with creative financing structures. What could this mean? This could mean partially investing, partially donating, partially selling, partially government funding. So.
Me: Yeah. This sounds interesting.
Them: What an organization.
Me: Maybe I should watch their thing and, you know, see their, their presentation. I mean, I think at the beginning of this one big question, because I know you said, okay, it's not so important for. Or maybe the fundamental question isn't what is going to be the cost of cultured meat in 2036 or. How likely is it to succeed? I think why that question was sort of important and why, you know, among other things, I want to have at least some focus on it. Is because the discussion amongst. Sort of donors and the animal community kind of had moved in the direction like cultured meat is never going to be. It's going to be cost prohibitive in our lifetime. Right. And if that's the case, then clearly, you know, if it's, I mean, of course, what you care about is the marginal impact of your donation on the probability. But if, you know, but if it's of a baseline probability of, you know, a tenth of 1%, you kind of imagine that if it's worth. It's not worth shooting for.
Them: I completely agree. And I do think, like, if we know, then it's valuable. But making a prediction that we do not know whether it's accurate. I feel like might be more harmful than good or just not that useful. Because if we make a prediction.
Me: True.
Them: And then we said, like, oh, yeah, we worked on it really hard.
Me: If it's not calibrated, it's not calibrated.
Them: But we don't know if it's any good. Then I feel like the use result of the prediction is also not useful.
Me: Well, we won't state it in a, in an overconfident way. That's the goal. Right. And we are going to pass it. The whole idea with the Biblical Questions project is I want to have so my, my. So we're already asking the pivotal questions evaluators to deal with the questions. That you saw, to identify, to look through the research, to evaluate the research. My fear is that.
Them: Jacob seems frozen. Are you still here? Yeah, I'm still here.
Me: Okay? My fear is that they will charge off in some wrong direction. And one of the reasons why I want to have this model out there front and center is because I want them, you know what I mean, to be thinking about that, you know, and I think some of them already will be. But, you know, I worry that some of them will start going off and talking about the climate of the environmental constructs or. Okay, so I think we have a similar goal in mind. Maybe two goals. One is coming out with a model or some set of models that we can say, here's how we came up with this. The other is sort of template. For model and feeding that to the pivotal questions, evaluators. And there might be some back and forth there. I think we should get into maybe the sort of modeling details where we are with this and where we see this going forward, because it can be a bit overwhelming, all the different systems we're using. Right.
Them: Yeah. One short summary that I still want to. I feel like, in a way, we're very in line.
Me: Yeah, please.
Them: But to me, the model is really like a means to an end. And if the end does not seem useful, Then to me it's just an exercise. And I would like this to become something that where the answer already feels useful, even if we are unsure if it's correct. And that's why I'm talking about this like.
Me: Yeah. Yeah, I would just. And maybe this is more of a conversation for me and you to have, David, because I. I don't want to. You know, I'm not sure if Jacob is so into this high level conversation, but. Or, you know, maybe he wants to get into the modeling more. I'm a body. Language person. So I worry that you're. That you're sort of. We're not getting into the modeling as much as you want, but just my one caveat to that is. Sometimes doing these things in public. Can help other people who might also be doing these things in public understand whether it's worth doing. So if we do this and it fails to answer the question narrowly, But we demonstrate why this approach doesn't yield the value you want. It will inform hopefully the community of other people who are also planning on doing this modeling and keep them from spinning their wheels, wasting their time. As well as maybe providing other insights into. Okay, here's how this could work in cases where it would be more fruitful. If that makes sense.
Them: Jacob. What's that question to me?
Me: No, it was just a general just putting it out there.
Them: Okay. So. I mean. Right. Sorry. Maybe general comment from my side as well. I think, you know, yeah, I'm much more pragmatic in terms of my approach to solving problems. And I think, you know, I like to stay grinded in facts rather than is this high level, almost philosophical discussions. For me, this should be approached as if this was, you know, as if you wanted to introduce a new market, new product to the market. And I think, yeah, there's obviously the ideological part, right, that somebody decides not to consume meat anymore in their lives. But I think much more powerful effect is the substitution effect, which is basically, if you have a product which wins on cost and quality, then it will win more customers and you achieve your goal through, you know, through being good at producing cultivated meat. So if we're speaking about the end goal. Then I think. The eyes should be. You know, the price is the. Is the adoption of the new technology. And then you can structure your question in a way that allow you to cover your uncertainties regarding how you want to approach this. In order to introduce a new product to the market which wins over traditional meat sources operated in sources, you can't look at it in isolation. You need to be thinking, all right, I am. Going to, you know, completely disrupt the meat market, but by introducing artificially produced meat. And I'm going to win on both quality and price. If you don't start with this kind of high level vision, however unlikely it might seem at the beginning, I think you're setting yourself up for a failure from day one. And the cost model. Yeah, it's just. Just a little piece of the whole puzzle.
Me: But important piece. Wouldn't. Would you are. Would you agree it's an important piece?
Them: I know it was one of the very important ones. Perspective. Because if you want to win on pricing quality, then you need to know what project you're going to need to charge for your product. Right? And if you quickly Google, maybe that's why you thought Bubba kind of, you know, losing the thread of your discussion. But it's just Googling.
Me: No, no. Just. I just didn't feel like you were. I was. I was just worried we were. We were boring you, that's all.
Them: No, absolutely not. Checking. You know Linholg's futures prices on Chicago Market Exchange.
Me: Okay? Very cool.
Them: And they go in the range of two two dollars per kilo. Plus or minus 10 cents. So you have a high bar, right?
Me: Wait, there's an actual. You're talking about meat prices. Not animal meat. Regular meat prices.
Them: Yeah. For meat prices. Yeah. I think you should also anchor to some benchmark. You can say that. Okay.
Me: Yeah.
Them: This is likely going to be a possible substitute for chicken meat or baby. Beef or maybe something else. Right. Basically, we know it needs to be €1 90 in order to be, like, clearly be very attractive. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or cheaper.
Me: Yeah, yeah.
Them: Because if it's too fast, obviously there's a risk in that. Right? Because then you try to massage the data, and if you talk to the data enough, they will confess. And you don't want to do that. You want to be realistic.
Me: No, but we're not doing that. We're not doing that because we don't have. We don't. We're not. We're not like that. That's the thing with these.
Them: Yeah, we're not doing that. We haven't done that yet. Yeah.
Me: No, no, but we're not. I mean, we're setting things up so as tonight, and we don't have an incentive to do so because I, you know, we're not working for a culture meat company. Our jobs don't depend on the success of cultured meat. Mine doesn't anyways.
Them: Y.
Me: So. All right, well. Let's. And I just. Just like when I've talked people, there are a number of things that will contribute to the success of cultured meat. But if every time you approach an exercise, you say, oh, there's so many things, let me do each in a shallow way, you never solve, you never get, you. Know more information about any of those places of the puzzle. So my thinking is let's focus this exercise on things having to do with the production cost of cultured meat.
Them: Eah. Yeah, agreed.
Me: Okay? So if we could just pivot to the model and, you know, we're doing. I think we're doing a pretty good job of asynchronous discussion of it.
Them: Yeah.
Me: But it gets a bit disaggregated. And I think also the I also wondering what your thoughts about the platform for, let's say hosting you for the model that we will build or the model that we might want to host in some flexible way for other people? I don't know if. Squiggle is the best route for that. I think it's the best that I know of, but, you know, the vibe coding and things makes a lot of things easier, so I'm not sure.
Them: I think. It's. To me, it would be nice if there's something where the mathematical underlying thing seems more accurate. Because the thing that Jacob showed with the normal distribution of squiggle that is concerning to me.
Me: Let me, let me, let me. I know.
Them: I just wanted to make a caveat.
Me: Some.
Them: It's possibly just the way that they present the distribution.
Me: I know some things about Squiggle. Just from having gone to the. To the conference. To his conference, his workshops. Ozzy? I don't know if you know Ozzy. He has. By the way, he has a very cool you might be interested in his work. His slack channel Quantitative Uncertainty Research Institute. He also has a slack channel about epistemics in ea. So I suggest you can, you know, reach out. Anyways. Their base mode is to simulate distributions, not do analytical contribution analytical computations. However, there's. So that's why when you say okay, let's see what the disc going to look like. You'll get these wiggles, if that's what we're talking about. However, there are. If I recall, when he was talking about, he was saying there's always ways, or he's always looking for ways to replace it with an analytical distribution. Replace the contributions the computations with. Rather than doing a full simulation, let's draw observations from uniform distribution. Let's see. Can this be done in one step of a mathematical computation?
Them: Yeah.
Me: But maybe I'm missing the point. Maybe that wasn't the issue that you're getting.
Them: Yeah.
Me: It.
Them: That's definitely not one of the major issues. Right? This is just an observation. At the beginning it just seemed weird if you defined a normal distribution on that platform. Weird squiggles. But I think it's just a matter of presentation because they chose to present it with Granola density equations. Right? The smooth line and probably overfits to the, you know, bumps and humps of the histogram, which is the result of the simulation.
Me: Simulation.
Them: Yeah. So in the end, this is not. Not a big point. Definitely not. But as a. As a back of the envelope kind of approach, it's definitely not bad.
Me: If I just. Yeah, good.
Them: To me. Maybe. Maybe I would need to work with that a little more, but it doesn't give that much flexibility in terms of. In terms of defining your simulations and such.
Me: I think there might be more flexibility in the back end that we're not aware of. But. Your point? This might not be the best tool. It's just the only tool.
Them: Yeah.
Me: I know of that. Well, one, it's free. To. It allows people to work together. I mean, there's also something. But that's just clearly not as good in my opinion. Although maybe a bit easier. Called guesstimate. That allows people to work together, however, like the inner, you know, and it has a. It has a code thing that I guess is fairly legible. But how important is it for code to be legible in a day with vibe coding? I'm not sure. You know, maybe Python code is now legible to most people. I don't know.
Them: Y. Eah. I think just playing Python with a very clear rule on what you import and what you don't import. And some guidelines. Like, if. If you want to read the details of a model. Then being able to download git. And hit enter on the the commands that are listed in the readme. I think that's a decent barrier to have to just be able to. Because if you look at a GitHub project, you can read the code, you can see the images. There's this thing called jupyter notebook.
Me: Of course, when priming with it.
Them: I think Python Jupiter notebook gets that's all we need.
Me: Okay, so you're saying that most people who'd want to be working on this. The people who would be working. Okay, let me put it a different way. There's not much difference between the people who would be able to work on this in Squiggle and the people that will be able to work on this in Python in a git repo. Is that a Ferris take on what you're saying here?
Them: And then. I mean, there might be a difference, but to me, I think the delta is small. I think whoever looks really nice, but I don't get it.
Me: It doesn't look that nice. Well, tell me. What. What, what part of it don't you get? The syntax or the. I mean, like, one thing.
Them: If you type uniform distribution. I get a wiggly thing and I have no clue what's happening in Squiggle. While if I import Python uniform, then I can read what's happening. And people know numbers in Python, people know what's happening. Well, if I add to numbers and squiggle, I have no clue what Scooter is going to do because I don't know, squiggle. Look. Yeah, that's kind of. You hit the nail ahead there, I think. Right. Seems to be an abstraction layer right on top of either C or some other language which basically runs simulations very quickly in the background.
Me: And it gives you a little it gives you a little illustrations of those simulation.
Them: Yeah. It gives you an illustration, which I think in our case caused more confusion than caused. Good. Right. Because we were really, you know, scratching our heads. Why it all distribution looks the way it looks here.
Me: Yeah, yeah. You know, I see what you're seeing.
Them: So I think they did themselves a disservice yet. But this point aside, this is an abstraction layer, and it requires reading the documentation. If somebody is already up to speed with Python, then there's really no need to use Squiggle, because they can generate those. Exactly. It can generate those distributions themselves in Python just as easily.
Me: Point taken. Python? Yeah, Python's a standard. Squiggles, obscure. What I'd like to see as a. I mean, this. This is like my utopian. Maybe this exists, but. And then we're talking software right now, so. Okay, but it seems doable. What I'd like to see. Like this. Like this thing here. The way it's laid out, at least. It's like. It's overwhelming, right? So what I'd like to see is. What I want to see is. And I think I've seen this. There's an app called Causal that was. That had a pretty good gui. Causal app, but they had other. Limitations. Oh, God. Everyone's always changing their names. I don't know if it's the same thing. Okay? Causal app. And the name is confusing because it's not about causality. Right. It's about. Oh, for fudge sake. I don't know. I'm so confused. All right, let me not show you that, then. But basically what I wanted to. What I would want to see is, like, something like. I can see what the equation is. That drives the underlying number. I can see the components. I can highlight each component of that. You know, this would be the quantity thing. This would be the fixed cost thing. This would be the volume. This is the thing that determines the volume. You know, what enters into that. You can unfold those and then you can see what. They're putting in is their baseline. Either a single number or distribution. Thank you. And you can then adjust it and see how the thing responds.
Them: Yeah, I think. I saw this kind of thing as well. Done with graphs, you could connect different boxes in a graphical way, and each of those boxes would represent your inputs to the model. Which you can define as either being following this or that distribution or whatever. And then you could quickly.
Me: Yeah.
Them: Kind of get a visual on how all those pieces work together.
Me: Exactly.
Them: And. Oh, yeah, I guess to it. Yeah, that's the one. Yeah, that's the one.
Me: Guesstimate is one of them. It has its limitations, which Squiggle was meant to improve upon. But maybe Squiggle didn't find.
Them: Yeah, obviously. This is much more visual.
Me: Didn't find the best of it. Just doesn't have a code version. I don't think Guesstimate has a code. Which is. Which is a challenge there, am I wrong?
Them: Yeah, you're probably right.
Me: But yeah. You, but you get the idea of it. I mean, I also. So I would like people to be able to see this, to see what it depends on, and I'd like people to be. The other thing that, you know, that I'm concerned with is, like.
Them: That.
Me: Maybe you'd like people to be able to say, well, hold on, what if we modeled this slightly differently? Anyways, I feel like we're getting a bit too much into the weeds, perhaps, about this. So sounds like we agree that guesstimate may not be sorry. Squiggle may not be the best tool for the job, but my concern is that if we move to Python, we will give up on some of the legibility in terms of people being able to visualize the distributions and see what goes into the model.
Them: So there's a lot of insanely good Python libraries. For visualization. And what you could do is add in the readme that if you make a contribution. Or in the GitHub contribution structure because, like, open source communities are insanely good at creating good things. Have you seen Wikipedia? That stuff is sexy.
Me: Everything's better and easier now, now that we can claude code.
Them: Okay? Wikipedia looks so well done. And also, it's a matter of opinion. That's not super critical to this discussion. And I get the point. The point being that, you know, if you really need to dig into the code base, if you have. Actually model coded up in Python. You need to know where the variables are. You need to get familiar with it.
Me: Yeah.
Them: And point of the matter. Result? Your discussion with GPT. Right on our critique of the model. Then proposed an improved model and even though I was already. No, it's not as quick A1, it's. It's a Python based one.
Me: In squiggle. Oh, it proposed the python one. Sorry.
Them: Yeah. And even though I was already familiar with squiggle model, I really had to spend quite some time in order to, you know, take break. There's improved model in Python apart, which means that there is a learning curve for each of those solution and they all have the advantages and disadvantages. And I think that if you want to be, you know. Getting your message across, then you need to make the communication as possible, even for the technically oriented people, which means that. As much simplification and visual presentation there is. You know, so good is your message quality as well?
Me: Yeah. Well, let's try to find something that works. You know that because I don't see Google Sheets or Excel as being a solution. I think that just adds. I mean, I don't want to, like, you know, if you were. But to me, that adds confusion of its own. You know, because it's. You can't see the forest for the trees there.
Them: Yeah, absolutely.
Me: But. Okay, maybe we can come up with something that works.
Them: Do both of you know Jupiter Notebook?
Me: I know. I mean, I. I've used it.
Them: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Me: I find the.
Them: So the thing is, you can go to the URL of a git repo. If the right plugins are there. So we would have to set it up so that it looks right. And then you have the jupyter notebook where you can clearly read Python code. Below it, you have an image, and while viewing the git, you can already see the visualizations.
Me: I would say like I find what when I've tried jupyter notebook in the past, I find the interface to be a bit ugly and distracting. So that's why I've used I've tended but it doesn't do the same thing, but because it's not interactive, I've tended to use quarto, but, you know, I can see the advantage of Jupiter notebook as well.
Them: I don't know what is. Is it, like, also Python code?
Me: You can. You can use Python or R or anything. But it basically brings together your computations. Your code is in folds. Your computations, your results. You can see. Let me see if I have a good example of a. Of a court just share with you. Okay?
Them: Can I quickly go back to what you said at the beginning?
Me: Please.
Them: Being that your aspiration is to make this project kind of the pilot for how things could be, you know, approached into the future on different problems.
Me: Yeah. Maybe to some extent. Yeah.
Them: It means that, you know multi dimensional problems with a lot of moving parts and you want those parts to interact with each other. And you will have your cost model and you'll have your market adoption probability model. And it's not so easy to integrate these two, especially if you have two flexible of a tool like Jupyter notebook or squiggle or anything like that.
Me: Precisely.
Them: That, you know, for the purpose of piloting, like, getting everything ready to demo it to somebody. I think the choice should be whatever is the easiest to build it, a pilot in for us and then. As the next step. Think, okay? How do we expose it to others? Maybe it's through, you know, maybe it's for a web hosted dashboard or whatever. And we can now go through the list of different tools. And fancy visualization options, but I think we're not going to get a perfect one anyways. And second of all, we still need to build a pilot.
Me: Okay? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Yeah, totally.
Them: Which is, you know.
Me: Totally.
Them: Completely agree.
Me: But, you know, I mean, like, for instance, right now we're working a Google Doc. There's probably a better way we could be working, but I'm not quite sure what that is. All right, but let's come back to that. Let's. So I don't know how much more time you have. I have to use the bathroom very quickly. Can we. I want to take some time to discuss the actual model. Do you have another. Can you stay on the call till the end of the hour? Is that okay? Okay? So let me just go use the bathroom very quickly and I'll be right back.
Them: The ryback as well.
Me: Great. And I'm going to share around to get repository. If I haven't already. Fresno. Space for us to work in. Can you hear me? Am I on mute? No, you can hear me.
Them: Yeah. Audio test. I can hear you.
Me: Cool. Okay, so let's talk about the actual modeling. I think that's. It's always good to get into the details. And also just remind ourselves what is real, what is, you know, what do we have now? So we have. We had.
Them: Cameras frozen. Are you here?
Me: Me.
Them: No, jacob.
Me: Right. So sorry. I was just. I was just showing you what Quarto looks like. But we don't want to get into that right now. That's in the. In the chat. Okay, so we have. A squiggle model. What. What is. What is the thing that I should be looking. That we should be looking at? Sorry, that's metaculous.
Them: You're not sharing your screen.
Me: Oh, sorry. I thought I was still sharing my screen. My bad. I stopped sharing it. Although I don't. You could share too, if you'd rather. That's. That's also fine.
Them: Let me try.
Me: Oh, okay, I did, but.
Them: Okay, fair enough. You go right.
Me: Either way. Okay? Right. So we had. Is this squiggle? So this is so squiggle. I can't remember what the latest one is, but is it something like squiggle model improve? This might have been the latest one. We have this Google Doc for discussion at the moment, right?
Them: Yeah, I think. We did a good work. Discussing the squiggle model. In the doc. We had a comment exchange. And you addressed all of the points of our critique. Either directly yourself or through your work with GPT.
Me: Yeah.
Them: I then responded to some of those comments. I don't think there's much more to that.
Me: I think the only.
Them: I think.
Me: Yeah. The only point where we might have a disagreement, but I'm not sure that we do, is. So one has to use distributions for or, you know, we want. If we're trying to simulate the price of this. You have to either say we certain use a certain certain parameter or distributions. And of course, I guess that distribution could also be a set of, you know, doesn't it could be a degenerate distribution. It could be a, you know, there could be points to it. So you say that the parameterization should be justified by research or empirical data. But what if you don't? What if you use, like very fundamentally don't have that? What do you do?
Them: Yeah. Yeah. This was kind of my point in my introduction. Right. So a typical modeling takes whatever data you have, you fit the distribution to that data. And then you sample from the distribution if you want to build a forecast. Obviously, if you have the limitation that you don't have empirical data, then probably the next best thing is judgment of the experts, right? And this is why we also asked were these distributions in the parametrizations come from? And I think your reply that it is based on some survey which link.
Me: Where did I reply that? Sorry, I don't remember saying that. It may have been GPT pro or something.
Them: How was the input data obtained? And then there's There's a comment from you, either you or not sure, at least GPT prohibit ties, but there is really sorry.
Me: No, that's. Yeah. How.
Them: I'd probably have to go back to the paper. Ah, yes. We trust you on this. So we assume that some of these parameterizations come from that paper. Opened paper. I haven't read it too carefully. So can't really write for that, but let's say it comes from the paper.
Me: I don't want you to over update on. You know, basically I said I want to start Basically what I did is I said, I want to start a model, just to have a framework for a model. That we can improve upon. And I said, well, how should I do this? Well, let me start with someone who has already done a model. And, you know, kind of ask. I think it was either ChatGPT Pro to build a model based on this, but then to say, all right, well, what could you improve based on things that have happened between the time that this paper was built? And the paper behind this model was built.
Them: And I think it boils down to the problem, basically modeling costs in manufacturing. And I think, well, whether it was a human or an LLM did a fairly good job as a first take. And this is breaking the bubble into the three basic components, which is the variable costs, which by direct means of production contributing to the cost than you have your fixed cost, which further contribute to your operating costs and then you have financing costs on top because you have to take the money somewhere and then probably earn enough return to justify the investment.
Me: Yeah.
Them: So in terms of. Kind of synthesizing this problem. It's a fairly good approach, I think. Obviously, the differ was in the detail, and then we made some comments regarding the components of those costs. Are because it's not a full picture, not a full list of all the possible costs. But we also agree that there needs to be some simplification made in order to make it useful and achievable. So there's a trade of between, you know, accuracy. Or rather, complexity.
Me: Flexibility.
Them: And. Yeah. And flexibility and what you include in your. In your model as well.
Me: I would suggest. Yeah, I would suggest in the terms of the. There's something to be said about the financial aspects we want to be careful about. If the goal is to say, like, if the goal is, what will be the cost of production? In perpetuity. We probably don't want to include sort of dividing the R and D costs. By the volume you know. In other words, if you have to invest in equipment to continue to produce the thing, then you want to charge for those costs. But if it was a recent research and development cost that might have been forever, that might have been provided by donors or an outside agency, that shouldn't factor into the price. But anyway. Sorry, I'm getting into details, but just the sort of details we want to be informed by.
Them: Yeah. No, no, no, that's fine. One of our remarks was that this depreciation. Assume the depreciation timeline, right time horizon of Xia. The point of the critique on one hand is obviously whether this Xia matches or is somehow correlated with what you see in the market.
Me: Yeah.
Them: And the second point is that, well, fine, this is the depreciation, the maintenance cost of running your current level of production for these amounted years. But as your machine park gets all the needs replacement, you need to reinvest money or you need to take more money to buy new machine parts. So this is something that we have an explicitly put in in the document. But I think there's an underestimation from that point because you started to talk about financing cost. I think one of the bigger points there is that it assumes a.
Me: Of course.
Them: Fixed, fixed horizon for the. For the whole enterprise rather than, as you said, you know, perpetuity. Which is more appropriate view on.
Me: Oh, sorry.
Them: Those.
Me: Yeah. Oh, okay. I see what you're saying. Yeah. No, I mean, right, the goal is, like. If we. I see what you're. I think I see what you're saying the goal is. What would be the steady state cost? I think that's the main idea. If we put, you know, ideally, if we put in a certain amount of investment, how will that correspond? How will that translate into a steady state? Cost.
Them: Yeah. Yeah. For Royal Company to be a going concern, you don't. You not only need an initial investment, initial outlay of funds, but also you need new investment as the time passes. To replace the aging machine. Park to invest in R and D and things like that.
Me: Sure. No, definitely.
Them: So I think the, the initial model doesn't consider that. It's just this snapshot of, okay, we have 20 year timeline for these operations and then we shut down and go home, which is obviously not the point of exercise. We want to model going concern.
Me: Because some of those things. Some of those things just. Just to make sure I understand, you're saying because some of those tools will have a longer life than 20 years and maybe some shorter. But if I say 20 years and I'm paying for a tool that has a life of 50 years, I'm overcharging myself. Is that kind of where you're getting at?
Them: You're actually underestimating your costs if you only take your initial 20 year depreciation of the initial investment. Right. Because. Yes,
Me: Okay. If you are depreciating, though. Yeah, if you are depreciating.
Them: You need to replace or renew your machine park and I don't know premises. And the fixed assets, right, they. They depreciate. Yeah, you can write that off in your accounting ledgers, but then at some point, the physical thing no longer works and you need to get a new machine.
Me: Okay, so you want.
Them: And the model doesn't include that. Like, there's some reinvestment detail.
Me: Well, okay. That should. I mean, I would. I would say. I would think that an adequate. We're getting into accounting issues here, but I would think an adequate depreciation should take that into account. But maybe not. Maybe that's not the standard practice. Okay, so. All right. One more thing, and then maybe we talk about going forward. There's a lot of narrow issues to talk about, but I think we're pretty good at communicating those over the chats or, you know, although we'll. We'll try to find ways to make our conversation a bit more organized. Maybe we move to git or something. But one thing I was thinking about in this discussion. You know what would be a good output of this? Okay, so one would be like an opinionated model or. I don't know what opinionated means, but like a model, we think. Yeah, this represents what we think would be maybe the best. Way to model this a distribution of the over uncertainties that seems to reflect our beliefs informed by the data. Right? And be like, you know, so this is the model that we are putting forward. Here's what's behind it. Right. And maybe it's a little more fancy than that. Maybe we say we actually have these different flavors of it so you can, you know, explore its sensitivity. And then another, maybe the next. And then also explains what goes into that model. And then maybe a next really good step would be, like, ask users. Like, whoever could be the user of this? Be like, what do you think would be reasonable to assume about this? Would you like to do this? Would you like to do that? And then that then spits out another model, ideally, that conforms to what they, you know. You know what I mean? So rather than asking them to, like, specifically move a lot of complicated sliders to be like, oh, well, I want to, you know, ask them maybe a slightly simpler questions. To be like, do you think that this is a normal investment, just. Just throwing that out there? And then. And then, you know, and then they can see, we can see what they put in. We can see how the results change. That also can help us understand what the most important. Cruxes are. Does that. Does that make any sense, or does that seem utopian?
Them: I think that seems reasonable. And it also would encourage us to break the model into its separate components so that you can give culture to each manufacturing expert, the model component, which models just that. Then you have the financing guys who are going to review your financing structure, and then there's going to be some operations people who know how to set up a machine park. You can connect it into production mine and will tell you how much it costs as a benchmark for you.
Me: Yes. Right. Right? Right.
Them: And I think that's achievable. Absolutely. If this is what you're aiming for, then we can try to work towards that as a goal.
Me: And we. And we also have modeling experts that can look at our thing and say, oh, wait, you know, you guys are dealing with this wrongly. To me, conceptually, that some of the biggest challenges is. Okay. Okay. I mean, one is. Yes. Okay. What. What distribution should the uncertainty take? But there's principles you can apply to that, I suppose. Maybe, you know, you can talk about that. But even more difficult is. The correlation and you got at this, but with different scenarios, Jacob, the correlation between these uncertainties. Right. Because, you know, if I think if I'm a, if I'm a. This is not the same example, but let's just take an example. If I'm a company and I'm saying, okay, my Revenue is price times quantity. Right. If I assume those things are positively correlated, that's probably a mistake. But if I assume those are positively correlated, I'm going to have way more uncertainty than if I assume those things are negatively correlated. Right. I mean, as an economist, it's even more complicated than that. But you see what I'm saying, Like, you can go like the simplest approach is like, let's take a worst case scenario and a best case scenario and use worst case scenario for everything or best case scenario for everything. Essentially, then you're assuming like perfect positive correlation.
Them: Yeah. No, I mean, that wasn't our intention to try to suggest that we definitely don't want to do it just with our best case scenario, worst case scenario. But there seems to be two different regimes involved in modeling the cost, which is the, you know, technology adaptation for manufacturing culture needs, which slashes the cost tenfold. 20 volts or whatever.
Me: But then as independence. Which is. No, no, I know. No, you weren't. I know you weren't. And the components of that.
Them: And the thing is, if you blend it, then you kind of, you know, lose some information. So this is why I thought that it wouldn't be too bad of an idea to have possibly two mobiles, one of the same class, one which works under the assumption of full technological adaptation, and the other, if no progress on manufacturing capabilities of cultured meat. And then you have two distributions and two uncertainty bonds around your median mean or whatever quantile you. You choose to use to communicate.
Me: In principle. I see something to that. But to me. By the way, if you have to go, we can continue this conversation later. I can go for another five minutes or so, if that. If it's okay with you.
Them: Yeah, maybe let's try to have some closing remarks. I think we're getting into the thick of it, but we can spend a digital hours discussing that. But yeah.
Me: Okay, okay. We will at some point, okay?
Them: I will have to leave in some minutes as well.
Me: Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So. Yeah, some bind. Yeah, go. I'll just put it in the comments. It's better that way. Okay, so let's think about what are the next steps for you to do, for me to do. How can I help you do what you want to do? And what you know and we can talk about. What tools to be using. You know, we can talk about the asynchronously, but. Yeah, what do you think the next steps are?
Them: I think, if I summarize it correctly, what Jacob and I thought before this call today was that we want to get someone from the industry to review what we have so far. You said that you already have people within the Unjournal network. That are working on that. So either it makes sense. For jacob and I to meet them. Or I should go looking for someone who can look. Review this model.
Me: I mean, I would suggest. I don't know if we have a model just yet. That's legible enough to share with people. In other words, I don't think like I, I, I created a squiggle model. I've asked for some updates to it. I haven't even looked at all of the updates I put in. And I'm not sure it's in line with. With things that you would. That you would sort of advocate.
Them: Yeah, I. I wouldn't use the squiggle model either. We've got quite a good improvement. Through that squiggle model from GPT. Which spot out in a response to your prompt Python code. We'd built on the squiggle model. But it addresses some of the points from our critique.
Me: Is that hosted somewhere?
Them: In quite a good way.
Me: Is that one hosted somewhere? I can't remember if I. If I got around to getting it to host and visualize it somewhere.
Them: It's in the doc. Well, I haven't seen any link. No, I don't think it's hosted. Second last, second to last tab.
Me: Right, right, right, right, right. So this is the one we should be. We should be leveraging, we think. But.
Them: Yeah, if we scroll.
Me: There's a few versions I asked it to do to do a sort of very.
Them: So the first principle model is the one I refer to, the Python one.
Me: No, no. This one.
Them: Yeah.
Me: Just remind myself here. Yeah, okay.
Them: The structure of the model is very similar, right? There's a random number generator and some, let's say, methods to create distributions. And then there's, like, class holding all the parameters for those various distributions. There's probably too many of them at this point. Like it went really deep into some technical cultivated wheat production things which I come out opinion.
Me: No. Yeah, that's challenging.
Them: But as a modeling structure, it's fairly good.
Me: We should ask it.
Them: And I ran the code in it work so out of the box. And we can, you know. See if. It. See if it's basically is fit for purpose. That we have in mind and maybe at some point decide, okay, this is actually better than the squiggle. Let's not waste our time, try and do improve the squiggle model ourselves. Let's trust, you know, whatever we got out of the conversation with the LLM. And say, okay, we're comfortable showing the cost distributions produced by this model, maybe with additional tweaks from our side. And let's move on to the next piece of the puzzle. Or let's ask some, you know, industry experts. Basically make. Plausibility check or the reality check on the output of the model. Because ultimately, this is what we. What we would like to get.
Me: Yes.
Them: Some level of. Yeah. Some level of comfort in the. In the numbers that we're working with. Because, I mean, what is this model? We're not trying to mimic the reality, right? There's too many moving parts in the whole system is probably too complacent. But we have some. We want to have some accurate representation of what the cost might be. The uncertainty bar around the mean on whatever level of confidence that we want. So that we can use this to communicate to the broader audience. And then we will say, okay, so this is our cost component of the whole cultivated meat project. Let's move on to the next thing, which is, you know, ABC or xyz. And that might be, you know, modeling technology, adaptation of, of new products, market penetration of the products. Or maybe then we say that we want to make do a deep dive on financing part of the model. Whatever is most useful at some future point in time.
Me: I mean, that sounds very ambitious and very. And would be very would be a big win. What you're suggesting there.
Them: Does that make sense? Yeah. Running quite a way, quite a long way into the future. You know the kind of thoughts that run through my head when I'm thinking about what to do with this tax?
Me: Okay, so here's what. Here's what I proposed to do next with this, just to make it more legible and workable. So I'm going to move something like this into our GitHub repo that we'll all have access to. I'm going to ask claude code. Basically. To build this. Width into a I. Probably a quarto, because that's what I'm more familiar with than Jupiter Notebooks. It doesn't allow people to edit it in line, but you can. It can incorporate. There might be ways that it could incorporate inputs. People could use inputs, you know, at least that was my thought. We could also try with it with a jupyter notebook, but the idea is that. It would show the equations for the model, explain the choices made in this model or not made, you know, or left flexible. It would have the code. Explain the code, generate the intermediate results. Of the model. You know, like each component generate the full result of the model. And then ideally, allow people to tweak things. In the model. And maybe at some later point, but maybe probably not now. Look at this. Do a sort of sensitivity analysis. And then once we have that, we will. Once we have something legible, we can share that with the experts and they can start critiquing. Does that align with what you were thinking, Jacob?
Them: Yeah. Yeah, it does. It. 's exactly. That's roughly what I had in mind. Right. We need some external feedback on this, ultimately.
Me: Right. And in the end, medium.
Them: Because we sort of did the technical validation.
Me: Done.
Them: And the structural validation of the Google. Thinking about, you know, how these components do they fit together and whether the way they are stimulated with these kinds of distributions makes any sense. And let's say we tick those boxes, we're fairly comfortable. We would say, let's not use the squiggle model, let's look into the Python mechanistic. Model generated by an LLM, and then we generate the output. We have the uncertainty power around our mean forecast, and then we share it to people and let them play with it as well and gather feedback and see. Where it takes us. Yeah, absolutely.
Me: I mean, just. Just to clarify the terms, when you say mechanistic model, it's still embodying uncertainty. Right.
Them: Oh, yeah, absolutely, you're right, because it's all based on simulation.
Me: You just meant it's not going to do. It, okay? It may even.
Them: Mechanistic in the sense that it's bottom up economic model, right? So the mechanism being the cost component, looking, taking a bottleneck view on how you basically end up with X dollars for kilo of mint.
Me: Yes. Yeah. Okay, we're on the same page. Okay? All right.
Them: I'm sharing something with you, which I was given by Pertson working on a biosecurity. In the biosecurity startup. Who developed with Cort code, obviously, because vibrating. A dashboard which lets people play around with pool incentive cost estimator, which is maybe a direction you would like to go to into David, you can have a look.
Me: Yeah.
Them: What does much less complex pull incentive is basically. What incentives in terms of money terms you have to offer to a farmer companies in order for them to develop a drug. It's a specific term. Drug. Pharmaceutical medicine. Yes. Medicine? Yes. Yeah.
Me: I'm trying it right now. This seems cool. Okay. I mean, it's not really showing me what is behind any of this. That's something. You know, I would want ours to really you able to open things up and understand what the calculations are and why, but. Yeah, but this is.
Them: Yeah. Yeah, it's. It's not as involved as what we discussed. Absolutely.
Me: Yeah.
Them: It's just, you know, something to.
Me: Okay, well, I. I'm going to propose like I will today. Try to put up at least to a GitHub repo that we can all work in. And then I will, I guess maybe I will push a little bit on my Claude coding stuff to try to get to, you know, to see if that gets us somewhere. And then we can. It's going to be pushed to GitHub, so you can make comments, issues, whatever. In the GitHub, I assume you're familiar with working with GitHub, right? Is that fair? Yeah, yeah. And I'll also potentially try to bring other people into the conversation. You know, both in terms of the biologists, people, etc. You know, to try to weigh in on this as we build it. And maybe bring Ozzy and other people in in terms of the, you know, the idea of doing this sort of project, are there existing tools? What are we forgetting? And then maybe we have another meeting on that. Not that the live meeting is necessarily the best use of time, but I think it's helpful to catalyze the project. So maybe in another couple of weeks we have another meeting on this. Would that make sense? Make sense?
Them: One question I still have. So I have this. This person in my slack who also wants to join in on the project. I think it makes sense for at least me to meet them and have a chat with them to get to know them a little bit. And if it makes sense, then I might share the project with them. Is that okay with you?
Me: I mean, I am happy with this being as oGpen as. As. As you. As you guys are, as you guys are willing.
Them: Two.
Me: So more people, the more interesting, the more feedback. As long as it's someone who's, you know, approximately informed about the goals and. And what?
Them: Yeah.
Me: Building a model means.
Them: Yeah. Yeah. I think it's good to, like, stay working in teams that are practical, and if you grow the team very quickly and everyone doesn't communicate anymore and doesn't know who to talk to, that. That's why I ask.
Me: Yeah.
Them: But I'll vibe check them by just talking and then see if it makes sense.
Me: Terrific. Terrific. Well, guys, thanks again for pushing on this, and let me know how I can help facilitate anything for you, okay?
Them: Yeah, we'll reach out to you if we have any questions.
Me: Wonderful, wonderful. Great to meet you. Have a great afternoon.
Them: Yeah, likewise. Have a good one.
Me: Take care.
Them: Talk to.
Me: Bye. Bye.


# Jakub & David vd Linden

Fri, 20 Feb 26

### Project Background & Team Introduction

- David (25, Netherlands) wants to do EA-related work, found Contact via Reinstein
- Jacob (35+, between jobs/sabbatical) has 3.5 years experience in statistical/probabilistic modeling and forecasting
- Both seeking volunteering opportunities to build portfolios in EA space
- Project aims to model cultured meat production costs with meaningful uncertainty analysis

### Parallel Pivotal Questions Project

- Contact found 3 evaluators for Pivotal Questions project
  - 1 biologist, 1 economist, 1 engineer with biology knowledge
  - One evaluator worked at cultured meat company previously
- Two projects can work together and cross-pollinate insights
- Evaluator identities not yet disclosed

### Project Goals & Approach

- Create meaningful research that teaches readers something actionable
- Focus on actionable bottlenecks rather than simple success probability percentages
- Avoid binary yes/no recommendations, instead provide uncertainty ranges for investment allocation
- Essential to involve cultured meat production expert before sharing publicly
- Target: portfolio-building deliverable that explains methodology and conclusions

### Current Model Status & Technical Discussion

- Started with Squiggle model based on existing paper
- GPT-generated improved Python version addresses critique points
- Model structure: variable costs + fixed costs + financing costs
- Key technical concerns:
  - Normal distribution visualization issues in Squiggle
  - Need for expert validation of biological/technical parameters
  - Correlation modeling between uncertain variables critical

### Platform & Tool Selection

- Squiggle limitations: requires learning curve, visualization confusing
- Python preferred for flexibility and familiarity
- Jupyter Notebook suggested for interactive documentation
- GitHub repo for collaboration and version control
- Need balance between technical accuracy and accessibility

# Actual transcript


### Model Structure & Economics

- Bottom-up economic model focusing on cost components
- Current benchmark: €1.90/kg for conventional meat (Chicago futures)
- Must model as going concern, not fixed 20-year timeline
- Depreciation timeline issues: need reinvestment for equipment replacement
- Two potential regimes: full tech adaptation vs. no manufacturing progress

### Next Steps

- Contact will create GitHub repo and move Python model there
- Build Quarto/Jupyter documentation with:
  - Equations explanation
  - Code walkthrough
  - Intermediate results
  - Input adjustment capability
- David to vet potential third team member from Slack
- Schedule follow-up meeting in couple weeks
- Engage biology experts once model is more legible

